Let's walk through creating a firewall rule together.
Just a quick note.
For this walkthrough, we're going to use a text editor to practice the syntax.
As an analyst in a junior role,
you'll most likely recommend a rule to
the senior analyst or the network administrator who would then implement the change.
We have a vendor JD software that we want to grant access
to our internal software repository for a project we're working on together.
Rather than make the repository available to the world,
we'll open up our firewall just for this vendor.
They have an IP address of 123.222.111.2.
Our IP address is 10.10.5.3.
Our repository is on TCP 8443.
Open up your favorite text editor and follow along.
If you recall from the lesson,
some organizations name the objects in their firewall for
both documentation purposes as well as for reuse,
if there are additional rules. We'll do that here.
To name the source IP,
we type name, the IP address,
and then the name we want to call it.
In this case, JDS-001.
To name our destination IP,
we type name, IP address,
and then when the name we want to call it.
In this case, acme-web.
Now that those are in place, let's create the rule.
Remember from our example,
a basic rule begins with access list.
Since this traffic is coming inbound,
we'll use our internal interface of acme-ingress-001.
The interface is named when the firewall is initially configured.
Next, we'll use extended permit as we did in our example.
We're also using the TCP protocol.
For the source we use our named object host jds-001.
For our destination we use the named object for that as well, host acme-web.
The port we're opening is 8443. That's all there is to it.